# Snow_algae_LICOR_data_analysis
This is code written by Brooke Weigel for analyzing photosynthesis measurements made using a LI-6800-aq (LI-COR Biosciences) on snow algal communities. We conducted light and CO2 curve experiments and used models to fit photosynthetic light and CO2 curves - see details below.

# Associated publication
Weigel, B.L., Castillo, G., Pata, H.K., Young, J.N., Kodner, R.B. 2025. Elevated light and CO2 levels increase photosynthetic rates of diverse snow algal communities from the North Cascades. New Phytologist. Will provide link when publicly available!

# Model fitting of photosynthetic light and CO2 curves
Photosynthetic light response curves were fitted with the Marshall & Biscoe non-rectangular hyperbola photosynthesis-irradiance model using the “photosynthesis” R package (Marshall & Biscoe, 1980; Stinziano et al., 2021). The model was fit to each chlorophyll-normalized net photosynthesis light curve to estimate the following parameters: 1) light-saturated or maximum net photosynthesis rate (Pmax) as derived from the asymptote, 2)  the initial slope (ɑ) that often approximates quantum yield of photosynthesis, 3) half-saturation irradiance level (KI), calculated by solving for the light level at half of Pmax, and 4) dark respiration rate. Dark respiration rates were quantified at the end of the light curve at zero irradiance; however, this model parameter should not be assumed to accurately represent the rate of cellular respiration (Stinziano et al., 2021), as darkness was only maintained for 4 mins. One replicate (Twin Sisters Patch 3) was removed from light curve parameter analysis due to a poor curve fit. Photosynthetic CO2 response curves were fitted with a 3-parameter Michaelis-Menten model equation using the R package “drc” (Ritz et al., 2015). The model was fit to each chlorophyll-normalized net photosynthesis light curve to estimate the following parameters: 1) light-saturated or maximum net photosynthesis rate (Pmax), 2) half-saturation CO2 level (KC), and 3) respiration rate at zero CO2. Two replicates (Twin Sisters Patches 1 and 3) were removed from CO2 curve parameter analysis due to poor curve fits.
